
Questions

    Describe, in your own words, what is an exception and what does it mean to throw an exception. DO NOT copy the text or any other source.
    Do Self-Test Exercise 24 on p. 567-568.
    Describe, in your own words, what is the difference between a static method/variable and instance method/variable. DO NOT copy the text or any other source.
    Do Self-Test Exercise 20 on p. 284.
    Do Self-Test Exercise 12 on p. 368.

Answers

 

    An exception is an event that occurs during the normal operation of a program that somehow interferes with the ability of the program to continue with its normal operation.
        When you “throw” an exception, you’re not using something inside a method, like a try-catch block. Instead you are creating a new method that tells the compiler that the entire method can throw an exception that would normally be caught by the singular try-catch block defined in the method.
        In essence, you can easily reuse the error code by simply saying that a method can throw the defined exception, as you could reuse any traditional method to save on how much time it takes to code something.
    Self test exercise 24:
    Trying
    Starting sampleMethod.
    Catching
    End program.

    The difference between a static method/variable and an instance method/variable
        Static means that in every instance the class will have only one copy of the method/variable. If you change or update it in another class, it will change or update in every class. Static variables are also instantiated before the program starts, also a static variable or method can only access other static variables or methods. 
    Self test exercise 20
    Objects are Not equal.
    Self test exercise 12 on p. 368
    At first glance the method does compile and accomplish its task of returning a char[] array after incrementing through the array and filling it with the capitalized value i. If an array a is correctly allocated, it will return the upper case values. a b c to ABC.

    There are several issues: first, in the context of the problem it can be private, not public.
    Second: It’s static, which means that technically the return value isn’t necessary, since

    there is only ever one copy of the array. You could make the method a void method and 

    perform the same task, it would still overwrite the original array the moment you call the

    method. This may not be the desired outcome and could lead to complications.
